Android Platform Architechture: https://developer.android.com/guide/platform/#linux-kernel
---- Andoid Applications     -------
---- Java API Framework      -------
---- Libraries -- ART runtime-------
---- HAL Layer               -------
---- Linux Kernel            -------


Linux Kernel:
The foundation of the Android platform is the Linux kernel. For example, the 
Android Runtime (ART) relies on the Linux kernel for underlying functionalities such as threading and low-level memory management.
Using a Linux kernel allows Android to take advantage of key security features and 
allows device manufacturers to develop hardware drivers for a well-known kernel.

HAL Layer:
provides standard interfaces that expose device hardware capabilities to the higher-level Java API framework. 
The HAL consists of multiple library modules, each of which implements an interface for a specific type of hardware component, 
such as the camera or bluetooth module. When a framework API makes a call to access device hardware, 
the Android system loads the library module for that hardware component.

Android Run time(ART):
For devices running Android version 5.0 (API level 21) or higher, each app runs in its own process and with its own instance of 
the Android Runtime (ART). ART is written to run multiple virtual machines on low-memory devices by executing DEX files, 
a bytecode format designed specially for Android that's optimized for minimal memory footprint. 
Build toolchains, such as Jack, compile Java sources into DEX bytecode, which can run on the Android platform. 

Prior to Android version 5.0 (API level 21), Dalvik was the Android runtime. If your app runs well on ART, 
then it should work on Dalvik as well, but the reverse may not be true.

Android also includes a set of core runtime libraries that provide most of the functionality of the Java programming language, 
including some Java 8 language features, that the Java API framework uses. 

Libraries:
Many core Android system components and services, such as ART and HAL, 
are built from native code that require native libraries written in C and C++. 
The Android platform provides Java framework APIs to expose the functionality of some of these native libraries to apps.

If you are developing an app that requires C or C++ code, 
you can use the Android NDK to access some of these native platform libraries directly from your native code.

JAVA API Framwework:
These APIs form the building blocks you need to create Android apps by simplifying the reuse of core, 
modular system components and services, which include the following:
- View System 
- content provider
- Activtity manager 
- Notification mgr
- Resource mgr


