The AM335x has four distinct bootloader stages:

AM335x Bootloader Order & The four bootloader stages are:
1) ROM
2) SPL (or Secondary Program Loader)
3) U-BOOT
4) Linux Kernel

1st Stage Bootloader: ROM Code
--The first stage bootloader is housed in ROM on the device. 
--The ROM code is the first block of code that is automatically run on device start-up or after power-on reset (POR). 
--The ROM bootloader code is hardcoded into the device and cannot be changed by the user

The ROM code has two main functions:
- Configuration of the device and initialization of primary peripherals
    Stack setup
    Configure Watchdog Timer 1 (set to three minutes)
    PLL and System Clocks configuration
- Ready device for next bootloader
    Check boot sources for next bootloader (SPL)
    Moves next bootloader code into memory to be run
    
 The list of booting devices that the ROM code will search through for  the second stage bootloader is 
 configured by the voltage levels set on the AM335x SYSBOOT [15:0] pins on startup.
 
 On the General purpose EVM, the SYSBOOT pins can be freely configured using the SYSBOOT Dip Switches
 The SYSBOOT pins configure the boot device order (set by SYSBOOT[4:0]) for MMC,SPI0, UART0, USB0
 SYSBOOT[15:0] = 010000000000110111b 
 
 2nd Stage Bootloader: SPL
 The second stage bootloader is known as the SPL, but is sometimes referred to as the MLO. The SPL is the first stage of U-boot, 
 and must be loaded from one of the boot sources into internal RAM. The SPL has very limited configuration or user interaction, 
 and mainly serves to set-up the boot process for the next bootloader stage: U-boot.
 
 3rd Stage Bootloader: U-BOOT
 U-BOOT allows for powerful command-based control over the kernel boot environment via a serial terminal. 
 The user has control over a number of parameters such as boot arguments and the kernel boot command. 
 In addition, U-boot environment variables can be configured. These environment variables are stored in the uEnv.txt file on your storage medium. 
 These environment variables can be viewed, modified, and saved using the printenv, setenv, and saveenv commands, respectively
 
 4th Stage Bootloader: Linux Kernel
 uImage is the kernel image wrapped with header info that describes the kernel. 
 This header is a 64kB block of information that includes the target architecture, the operating system, kernel size, entry points, etc.
 When booting uImage via U-boot, the header information is displayed on the command output.
 
 
 
 
